[MUSIC]
>> Justin Meyer: Let's add
a DOM structure like this.
At my window, it had document inside of
it, it had a body element and a div and
had an anchor element.
I'm gonna click on that acre element.
What's gonna happen is
the browser is going to
dispatch every event handler for click.
That's on the window's capture phase.
>> Justin Meyer: And
then, the document and
the body and the div.
And then, it's gonna dispatch all of
the event handlers on the anchor element.
And then, it's going to dispatch on
the Bubble Phase all of the event
handler is registered on the div,
the body, the document and the window.
So when I talk about,
remember that last argument.
You passed to add event listener.
It was true or false.
It said, use capture.
That controls whether you're
listening on this side or
this side of how the event
propagates when an event happens.
So to kind of repeat that real quick.
When you click on that anchor,
actually I think we have a good demo of
this.
>> Justin Meyer: What is the demo page?
It is events propagation.
>> Justin Meyer: Okay,
here's that same page.
And let me show you the HTML for it.
>> Justin Meyer: [SOUND] Where is it?
Slides.
>> Justin Meyer: So combined.
That's propagation.
Okay, so here,
I'm listening on the body on it's.
If you don't put anything here,
it's the capture phase.
>> Justin Meyer: And
that must not be true.
Sorry, if you don't want anything
here it's the bubble phase.
So I'm listening on
the body's bubble phase.
So I'll go false here and I'm listening
on the bubble, the body's capture phase.
And I'm doing the same thing for
the div, for bubble and body or
sorry bubble and capture phase and the
anchor for its bubble and capture phase.
So when I click on the demo,
I click on a link here.
You can see it says, body captured,
div captured
>> Justin Meyer: Then it's going to do
the a, all of the event handlers in
the order that they were registered.
And then, it's gonna do div bubbled,
body bubbled.
So let's go back and explain this again.
So [SOUND] by putting capture true.
I can listen, so when someone clicks here.
I can listen before that event actually
gets dispatched on the event listeners on
the anchor.
Does that make sense?
Like I can listen, I can pre empt.
I can, if I wanted a logger that
logged everything the user is doing,
if I listen on the windows, for
window clicks on the capture phase,
that will get called before any event
listeners on the incur are dispatched.
This is called Event Propagation
of the DOM, rights.
Because when you click on a link,
events are dispatched on the windows
capture phase and bubble phase listeners.
So make sense?
Any questions about this?
There's one thing I would
like it if you guys retained
and made sense.
>> Speaker 2: Can you give a real life
example of when that might be useful?
>> Justin Meyer: A logger,
on the capture phase,
a logger is where it's really useful.
If you wanna know every
event that someone's doing.
You would listen here because you can
stop events from reaching the window
by calling stop propagation
that prevents the bubbling.
If you listen here,
no one can get to the event and
stop it before you get it,
if that makes sense.
Good question, yeah.
>> Speaker 2: May I ask you?
What about [INAUDIBLE] custom events
to DOM know it's a triggered.
Is there a way that you can do
that without event listener?
>> Justin Meyer: Yes they're,
the DOM does provide
a way to dispatch events.
I can't remember if
dispatch events is the IE.
You do in this, it's this weird kind of,
you do some kind of at in the event and
you provide all the properties for
the event.
And then, you can pass that
event object to some method
on an on an element,
I forgot what it is and that a.
You can do that with custom events,
you can't dispatch your own custom events.
So yeah, so let's move on for
about a propagation.
Basically, the short thing take
from this is that when you listen,
let's say you're listening
on the window for clicks.
You're still gonna be responding
to clicks on an anchor
element cuz that these events work
their way through the whole DOM.
Just wanna skip thru-
>> Speaker 2: Can
you stop propagation on the capture phase?
>> Justin Meyer: Yes-
>> Speaker 2: As well as
stopping propagation on the-
>> Justin Meyer: Yeah,
you can stop on both phases.
That's a good question.
Yeah, so stopPropagation is
this method that prevents
events from going from
one element to the next.
Actually, I'm gonna open
this up in open up here.
Okay, so again, when I click on this,
the body capture phase listener
is gonna be dispatch first.
The div captured phase is gonna be second.
Now, it's gonna dispatch all of
the anchor elements event handlers but
in the order that they were dispatched
because there's this weird target phase
thing that happens.
But then, the event is going
to start propagating back up.
Dispatch the div's bubble phase and
the body bubble phase.
Now, the crazy thing here,
is in the capture phase of the body,
the thing that's gonna be done first,
if I do ev.stopPropagation.
>> Justin Meyer: And
I do this example again.
I am loading the wrong page.
I'm sure that I'm in the wrong.
It should be slides,
demos, front in masters.
>> Justin Meyer: Here,
we go, okay, so now if I do that.
It only hits body captured and
nothing else is dispatched.
>> Justin Meyer: So
a few more things I wanna
talk about with events.
Just to kind of give you an overview.
Even if it's not gonna sink in to my
apologies that we're kinda running out of
time here.
I at least want you to be aware of it.
There's a stopImmediatePropagation.
So stop propagation
only prevents a single,
it prevents propagation from going
the from the current element
to dispatching the next
element's events handlers.
So if you call stop propagation and let's
say the anchor has five event handlers.
It won't prevent any of the other
anchor's event handlers from firing.
Which is kind of weird.
To show what that does,
let me just show the example again here.
So let me remove the stopPropagation.
And if you remember again,
when I clicked this,
a bubble actually happened
before the capture phase.
So let me, in the bubble phase.
Which was registered first.
I'm gonna call ev.stopPropagation.
>> Justin Meyer: So you see here,
even though the stopPropagation happened
here, this event was still fired.
It's because stopPropagation only prevents
it from the next element's events from
being fired.
All of the events on the anchor
will still be fired.
To prevent those from being fired,
I could call stopImmediatePropagation.
And this would stop all the events
on the anchor from being fired.
Any other on the anchor or
any on the parent from being fired,
yeah?
>> Speaker 2: If you attach click handlers
to different elements,
like [INAUDIBLE] as well as the body.
How you tell the difference?
It can mean what was clicked on and
then someone mentioned
current target which is the answer but-
>> Justin Meyer: Yeah,
current target is the answer.
So these, like I said the event object has
there's two interesting
things on the event object.
So here, I'll listen on the,
I'm listing the body bubble.
I'm gonna put out the ev.currentTarg and
the ev.target.
I'm gonna write those out.
>> Justin Meyer: [SOUND] I'm gonna remove
myself ImmediatePropogation two.
>> Justin Meyer: Okay,
so when I click on this, the body bubbled
is going to tell me the current target.
That's whose event handlers
are being dispatched.
Well, the body's event handlers are being
dispatched that's why it gives me
the body.
But I still get as the target
the element who I actually clicked on.
So that's the difference between
currentTarget and target.
So the cool thing we could do is
essentially.
>> Justin Meyer: Even if we have
the same handler.
>> Justin Meyer: And
I think I could write phase or something.
What is it, Alexis.
I don't remember.
>> [INAUDIBLE].
Well, never mind don't worry about it.
So here, I could put the same handler
over and over and over again.
And this way,
even if we're using the same handler.
We can still can tell,
the function can still kind of
tell where it is and a little bit.
What's going on by just
looking in the event object.
So same functions can be
called back every time.
But it's gonna have,
first it's gonna be in the body,
the targets always gonna be the anchor
that it's moved to the div then it's on
all of the anchor's event,
registered event handlers.
And then, it's moving to the div and
then to the body.
Back to, back up to the body.